# Java_Springboot_Learning

learning and praticing with java springboot

# Learning note:

    1: setup with MongoDB:
        $in MongoDB Atlas, create a new project

        $   within the project, create a new database
                create username and password that allow you to access the cluster of the database
                *and save the username and password for future to generate the uri*
                (ps: the ip address can be set to 0.0.0.0/0 which mean everywhere around the world allow to access)

        $       use the uri generated by the username and password to connect to your cluster.

        $           after connected to the cluster, create a new database.
                        (the database can hold different series of models in it)
                        (for example: MY_MOVIES_PROJECT_DATABASE can have MOVIES model and REVIEW model in it.)
        
    2：initialize Spring Boot project:
        $navigate to https://start.spring.io/ to create a new spring boot project.

        $   download the zipped jar file after configs selected.
        
        $       move the zipped jar file into the target folder in my WSL system, 
                and run `unzip FILE_NAME.zip` to unzip it.
    
    3: database configuration:
        $config the database in "application.properties" file under "resources" folder.
    
    4: install dependencies to the project:
        $open the "pom.xml" file under root dirctory.
        
        $   under <dependencies> section, add new <dependency> section

        $       fullfill the <groupId> and <artifactId> with the depency you want to install
                (find dependency packages on "https://mvnrepository.com/")
                (ps: add <version> tag in the next line to choose the version you want to use)
                (    it also can be other tags such as <optional> and <scope> depends on the dependency)

    5: CORS
        $CorsConfiguration.java file shows the global cors configuration mthod.
            (there are also many other way to set up cors accordingly at Spring Boot cors document:)
            ("https://spring.io/guides/gs/rest-service-cors#global-cors-configuration")

